README.md, before:

# Blender Addon Registry

Manage addons the easy way!

## Installation

1. Download the file <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Bloutiouf/blender-addon-registry/master/addon_registry.py>
2. In Blender, go to **File** > **User preferences...** (`Ctrl + Alt + U`)
3. Click on **Addons** at the top
4. Click on **Install from File...** at the bottom
5. Select the file you have just downloaded and click on **Install from File...** at the upper right corner 
6. Enable the addon by ticking the rightmost box

The addon registry now appears below the regular addon panel. Just scroll down!

## Usage

The panel is very similar to the regular addon panel. It displays addons and their information that are recorded in the registry.

The button ![WORLD](http://wiki.blender.org/uploads/7/70/Icon-WORLD.png) **version** displays the latest version available, if the addon is not installed or is not up-to-date. Click on it to download and install the addon.

The button ![CANCEL](http://wiki.blender.org/uploads/5/50/Icon-CANCEL.png) **version** displays the installed version available, if any. Click on it to remove the addon.

Addons may be bundled together in the same archive file, i.e. they will be installed together. In this case, the icon ![LINK_AREA](http://wiki.blender.org/uploads/c/c4/Icon-LINK_AREA.png) appears, and the bundled addons are shown when you expand the addon box.

Once installed, the addons appear in the regular addon panel as well. They can be enabled or disabled from both panels.

### Installation directory

Addons are installed in `scripts/addons_extern`, meaning that they will appear in the category ![MOD_EXPLODE](http://wiki.blender.org/uploads/e/e5/Icon-MOD_EXPLODE.png) **Testing**. This is to remind you that they may harm your computer.

Updating an addon which was installed in `scripts/addons` or `scripts/addons_contrib` also moves it to `scripts/addons_extern`.

* **Windows 7**: `C:\Users\USERNAME\AppData\Roaming\Blender Foundation\Blender\VERSION\scripts\addons_extern`
* **Windows XP**: `C:\Documents and Settings\USERNAME\Application Data\Blender Foundation\Blender\VERSION\scripts\addons_extern`
* **Mac OS X**: `/Applications/blender.app/Contents/MacOS/VERSION/scripts/addons_extern`
* **Linux**: `/home/USERNAME/.config/blender/VERSION/scripts/addons_extern`

### 7-Zip

By default, only the zip archives can be extracted. By installing 7-Zip or one of its ports, all common formats are recognized.

#### Windows

1. Download and install 7-Zip: <http://www.7-zip.org/download.html>
2. Add 7-Zip's installation path to your PATH: <http://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm>

#### Mac OS X

**Not tested**, please send me feedback!

1. Download and install Keka 1.0.5: <http://www.kekaosx.com/>
2. Add an `alias 7z="/Applications/Keka.app/Contents/Resources/keka7z"` by following this guide: <http://computers.tutsplus.com/tutorials/speed-up-your-terminal-workflow-with-command-aliases-and-profile--mac-30515>

#### Linux

**Not tested**, please send me feedback!

Chances are that p7zip is available in your package manager. Otherwise:

1. Download and install p7zip: <http://sourceforge.net/projects/p7zip/files/>
2. You use Linux, you don't need any installation advice

## Publishing addons to the registry

If you want to **add**, **update**, or **remove** an addon on the registry, or for anything else, please **[create an issue](https://github.com/Bloutiouf/blender-addon-registry/issues/new)**.

This project is experimental. Maybe one day, the Blender team will integrate this into their main branch and free Blender users from years of using an outdated addon system. Therefore, I haven't bother to make a real publication system with a web interface. When they will integrate it, we'll discuss about such a system.

The addon database is actually a regular file served from GitHub, that I handle with a custom CLI tool explained below.

## Private registry

You may want to create a private registry, for instance inside your company to serve private addons. You can!

### Blender side

The addon tries to load the configuration file `.addon_registry` from the `scripts/addons` directory (**not** `scripts/addons_extern`). This is a regular JSON file. The default value is at the bottom of `addon_registry.py`.

It is **not recommended** to edit `addon_registry.py` as it can be updated as well.

Bundle `addon_registry.py` and `.addon_registry` together into a zip file that you will give to your colleagues. They have to install this zip using the procedure described at the top of this document. They will then have access to your private registry.

### Registry side

	git clone https://github.com/Bloutiouf/blender-addon-registry.git
	cd blender-addon-registry

The database is a regular JSON file. Its URL or file path (e.g. network drive) is given in `.addon_registry`.

CLI commands manage the database. The tool is written in [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/), so you need to install it.

If you are behind a corporate proxy, you will have to configure the proxies. Set the environment variables `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY`, and configure `npm`:

	npm config set proxy http://10.10.1.10:3128
	npm config set https-proxy http://10.10.1.10:1080

Then installed the dependencies:

	npm install

The tool is called with `node . command args...`. You can:

	add url|path ...
	list
	remove name ...

The Node.js module exports the corresponding functions, although I don't know why you would use it:

	exports.addons
	exports.add(url, [options], callback)
	exports.list([options], callback)
	exports.remove(name, [options], callback)

## License

Copyright (c) 2014 Bloutiouf aka Jonathan Giroux

[MIT licence](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Commit message:

Add cacert download in REAME.md

README.md, after:

# Blender Addon Registry

Manage addons the easy way!

## Installation

### Addon

1. Download the file <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Bloutiouf/blender-addon-registry/master/addon_registry.py>
2. In Blender, go to **File** > **User preferences...** (`Ctrl + Alt + U`)
3. Click on **Addons** at the top
4. Click on **Install from File...** at the bottom
5. Select the file you have just downloaded and click on **Install from File...** at the upper right corner 
6. Enable the addon by ticking the rightmost box

The addon registry now appears below the regular addon panel. Just scroll down!

### Root certificates

Python in Blender does not ship with root certificates, which is unfortunate because the registry is served over HTTPS. Without these certificates, connection errors will show up.

1. Download the cacerts from <https://github.com/jcgregorio/httplib2/tree/master/python3/httplib2>
2. Rename the file to `cacert.pem` and move it into `Blender installation path /VERSION/python/lib/site-packages/requests`

No need to restart Blender.

## Usage

The panel is very similar to the regular addon panel. It displays addons and their information that are recorded in the registry.

The button ![WORLD](http://wiki.blender.org/uploads/7/70/Icon-WORLD.png) **version** displays the latest version available, if the addon is not installed or is not up-to-date. Click on it to download and install the addon.

The button ![CANCEL](http://wiki.blender.org/uploads/5/50/Icon-CANCEL.png) **version** displays the installed version available, if any. Click on it to remove the addon.

Addons may be bundled together in the same archive file, i.e. they will be installed together. In this case, the icon ![LINK_AREA](http://wiki.blender.org/uploads/c/c4/Icon-LINK_AREA.png) appears, and the bundled addons are shown when you expand the addon box.

Once installed, the addons appear in the regular addon panel as well. They can be enabled or disabled from both panels.

### Installation directory

Addons are installed in `scripts/addons_extern`, meaning that they will appear in the category ![MOD_EXPLODE](http://wiki.blender.org/uploads/e/e5/Icon-MOD_EXPLODE.png) **Testing**. This is to remind you that they may harm your computer.

Updating an addon which was installed in `scripts/addons` or `scripts/addons_contrib` also moves it to `scripts/addons_extern`.

* **Windows 7**: `C:\Users\USERNAME\AppData\Roaming\Blender Foundation\Blender\VERSION\scripts\addons_extern`
* **Windows XP**: `C:\Documents and Settings\USERNAME\Application Data\Blender Foundation\Blender\VERSION\scripts\addons_extern`
* **Mac OS X**: `/Applications/blender.app/Contents/MacOS/VERSION/scripts/addons_extern`
* **Linux**: `/home/USERNAME/.config/blender/VERSION/scripts/addons_extern`

### 7-Zip

By default, only the zip archives can be extracted. By installing 7-Zip or one of its ports, all common formats are recognized.

#### Windows

1. Download and install 7-Zip: <http://www.7-zip.org/download.html>
2. Add 7-Zip's installation path to your PATH: <http://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000549.htm>

#### Mac OS X

**Not tested**, please send me feedback!

1. Download and install Keka 1.0.5: <http://www.kekaosx.com/>
2. Add an `alias 7z="/Applications/Keka.app/Contents/Resources/keka7z"` by following this guide: <http://computers.tutsplus.com/tutorials/speed-up-your-terminal-workflow-with-command-aliases-and-profile--mac-30515>

#### Linux

**Not tested**, please send me feedback!

Chances are that p7zip is available in your package manager. Otherwise:

1. Download and install p7zip: <http://sourceforge.net/projects/p7zip/files/>
2. You use Linux, you don't need any installation advice

## Publishing addons to the registry

If you want to **add**, **update**, or **remove** an addon on the registry, or for anything else, please **[create an issue](https://github.com/Bloutiouf/blender-addon-registry/issues/new)**.

This project is experimental. Maybe one day, the Blender team will integrate this into their main branch and free Blender users from years of using an outdated addon system. Therefore, I haven't bother to make a real publication system with a web interface. When they will integrate it, we'll discuss about such a system.

The addon database is actually a regular file served from GitHub, that I handle with a custom CLI tool explained below.

## Private registry

You may want to create a private registry, for instance inside your company to serve private addons. You can!

### Blender side

The addon tries to load the configuration file `.addon_registry` from the `scripts/addons` directory (**not** `scripts/addons_extern`). This is a regular JSON file. The default value is at the bottom of `addon_registry.py`.

It is **not recommended** to edit `addon_registry.py` as it can be updated as well.

Bundle `addon_registry.py` and `.addon_registry` together into a zip file that you will give to your colleagues. They have to install this zip using the procedure described at the top of this document. They will then have access to your private registry.

### Registry side

	git clone https://github.com/Bloutiouf/blender-addon-registry.git
	cd blender-addon-registry

The database is a regular JSON file. Its URL or file path (e.g. network drive) is given in `.addon_registry`.

CLI commands manage the database. The tool is written in [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/), so you need to install it.

If you are behind a corporate proxy, you will have to configure the proxies. Set the environment variables `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY`, and configure `npm`:

	npm config set proxy http://10.10.1.10:3128
	npm config set https-proxy http://10.10.1.10:1080

Then installed the dependencies:

	npm install

The tool is called with `node . command args...`. You can:

	add url|path ...
	list
	remove name ...

The Node.js module exports the corresponding functions, although I don't know why you would use it:

	exports.addons
	exports.add(url, [options], callback)
	exports.list([options], callback)
	exports.remove(name, [options], callback)

## License

Copyright (c) 2014 Bloutiouf aka Jonathan Giroux

[MIT licence](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
